README.md, before:

# JSqlParser

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/JSQLParser/JSqlParser)   [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/JSQLParser/JSqlParser?branch=master)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/00b2d91995764ae4805b55627aca8d39)](https://www.codacy.com/app/wumpz/JSqlParser?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=JSQLParser/JSqlParser&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)

[![PayPal donate button](http://img.shields.io/paypal/donate.png?color=yellow)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=64CCN9JJANZXA "Help this JSqlParser version using Paypal")  

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.svg)](https://gitter.im/JSQLParser/JSqlParser?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Look here for more information and examples: https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki.

## License

JSqlParser is dual licensed under **LGPL V2.1** and **Apache Software License, Version 2.0**.


## News
* Released first major version **1.0** of JSqlParser. 
* Please test the actual **0.9.8-SNAPSHOT**. It includes includes grammar refactorings or changes which eventually results in parse tree changes.
* Version **0.9.7** released.
* Version **0.9.6** released.
* Version **0.9.5** released.
* Please test the actual **0.9.5-SNAPSHOT**. It includes some grammar refactorings which eventually results in parse tree changes.
* Version **0.9.4** released.
* Please test the actual SNAPSHOT, if there are problems using the extended identifier token.
* Version **0.9.3** released.

More news can be found here: https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki/News.

## JSqlParser

JSqlParser is a SQL statement parser. It translates SQLs in a traversable hierarchy of Java classes. JSqlParser is not limited to one database but provides support for a lot of specials of Oracle, SqlServer, MySQL, PostgreSQL ... To name some, it has support for Oracles join syntax using (+), PostgreSQLs cast syntax using ::, relational operators like != and so on.

## Support
If you need help using JSqlParser feel free to file an issue or contact me.

## Contributions
To help JSqlParsers development you are encouraged to provide 
* feedback
* bugreports
* pull requests for new features
* improvement requests
* fund new features

Also I would like to know about needed examples or documentation stuff.

## Extensions in the latest SNAPSHOT version 1.1

* checkstyle integration to force first souce code conventions (linefeeds, spaces instead of tabs)

## Extensions of JSqlParser releases

* [Release Notes](https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/releases)
* Modifications before GitHubs release tagging are listed in the [Older Releases](https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki/Older-Releases) page.



## BUILDING from the sources

As the project is a Maven project, building is rather simple by running:

	mvn package

This will produce the jsqlparser-VERSION.jar file in the target/ directory.

## Maven Repository

JSQLParser is deployed at sonatypes open source maven repository. 
Starting from now I will deploy there. The first snapshot version there will be 0.8.5-SNAPSHOT.
To use it this is the repository configuration:

```xml
<repositories>
     <repository>
         <id>jsqlparser-snapshots</id>
         <snapshots>
             <enabled>true</enabled>
         </snapshots>
         <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/</url>
     </repository>
</repositories>
```
This repositories releases will be synched to maven central. Snapshots remain at sonatype.

And this is the dependency declaration in your pom:
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
	<artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
	<version>1.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Commit message:

updating readme with Maven requirements

README.md, after:

# JSqlParser

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/JSQLParser/JSqlParser)   [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/JSQLParser/JSqlParser?branch=master)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/00b2d91995764ae4805b55627aca8d39)](https://www.codacy.com/app/wumpz/JSqlParser?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=JSQLParser/JSqlParser&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)

[![PayPal donate button](http://img.shields.io/paypal/donate.png?color=yellow)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=64CCN9JJANZXA "Help this JSqlParser version using Paypal")  

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.svg)](https://gitter.im/JSQLParser/JSqlParser?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Look here for more information and examples: https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki.

## License

JSqlParser is dual licensed under **LGPL V2.1** and **Apache Software License, Version 2.0**.


## News
* Released first major version **1.0** of JSqlParser. 
* Please test the actual **0.9.8-SNAPSHOT**. It includes includes grammar refactorings or changes which eventually results in parse tree changes.
* Version **0.9.7** released.
* Version **0.9.6** released.
* Version **0.9.5** released.
* Please test the actual **0.9.5-SNAPSHOT**. It includes some grammar refactorings which eventually results in parse tree changes.
* Version **0.9.4** released.
* Please test the actual SNAPSHOT, if there are problems using the extended identifier token.
* Version **0.9.3** released.

More news can be found here: https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki/News.

## JSqlParser

JSqlParser is a SQL statement parser. It translates SQLs in a traversable hierarchy of Java classes. JSqlParser is not limited to one database but provides support for a lot of specials of Oracle, SqlServer, MySQL, PostgreSQL ... To name some, it has support for Oracles join syntax using (+), PostgreSQLs cast syntax using ::, relational operators like != and so on.

## Support
If you need help using JSqlParser feel free to file an issue or contact me.

## Contributions
To help JSqlParsers development you are encouraged to provide 
* feedback
* bugreports
* pull requests for new features
* improvement requests
* fund new features

Also I would like to know about needed examples or documentation stuff.

## Extensions in the latest SNAPSHOT version 1.1

* checkstyle integration to force first souce code conventions (linefeeds, spaces instead of tabs)

## Extensions of JSqlParser releases

* [Release Notes](https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/releases)
* Modifications before GitHubs release tagging are listed in the [Older Releases](https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser/wiki/Older-Releases) page.


## Building from the sources

As the project is a Maven project, building is rather simple by running:

	`mvn package`
    
The project requires the following to build:
- Maven 
- JDK 1.7 or later. The jar will target JDK 1.6, but the version of the maven-compiler-plugin that JsqlParser uses requires JDK 1.7+

This will produce the jsqlparser-VERSION.jar file in the target/ directory.

## Maven Repository

JSQLParser is deployed at sonatypes open source maven repository. 
Starting from now I will deploy there. The first snapshot version there will be 0.8.5-SNAPSHOT.
To use it this is the repository configuration:

```xml
<repositories>
     <repository>
         <id>jsqlparser-snapshots</id>
         <snapshots>
             <enabled>true</enabled>
         </snapshots>
         <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/</url>
     </repository>
</repositories>
```
This repositories releases will be synched to maven central. Snapshots remain at sonatype.

And this is the dependency declaration in your pom:
```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
	<artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
	<version>1.0</version>
</dependency>
```
