src/site/sphinx/usage.rst, before:

******************************
How to use it
******************************

.. hint::

    1) **Quoting:** Double Quotes ``".."`` are used for quoting identifiers. Parsing T-SQL on **MS SQL Server** or **Sybase** with Squared Brackets ``[..]`` depends on ``Squared Bracket Quotation`` as shown in section :ref:`Define the Parser Features` below.

    2) JSQLParser uses a more restrictive list of ``Reserved Keywords`` and such keywords will **need to be quoted**.

    3) **Escaping:** JSQLParser pre-defines standard compliant **Single Quote** ``'..`` **Escape Character**. Additional Back-slash ``\..`` Escaping needs to be activated by setting the ``BackSlashEscapeCharacter`` parser feature. See section :ref:`Define the Parser Features` below for details.

    4) Oracle Alternative Quoting is partially supported for common brackets such as ``q'{...}'``, ``q'[...]'``, ``q'(...)'`` and ``q''...''``.


Compile from Source Code
==============================

You will need to have ``JDK 8`` or ``JDK 11`` installed.

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Maven

    .. code-block:: shell

            git clone https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.git
            cd jsqlformatter
            mvn install

  .. tab:: Gradle

      .. code-block:: shell
    
            git clone https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.git
            cd jsqlformatter
            gradle build



Build Dependencies
==============================

.. tabs::


  .. tab:: Maven Release

        .. code-block:: xml
            :substitutions:

            <dependency>
                <groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
                <artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
                <version>|JSQLPARSER_VERSION|</version>
            </dependency>

  .. tab:: Maven Snapshot

        .. code-block:: xml
            :substitutions:
 
            <repositories>
                <repository>
                    <id>jsqlparser-snapshots</id>
                    <snapshots>
                        <enabled>true</enabled>
                    </snapshots>
                    <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/</url>
                </repository>
            </repositories>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
                <artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
                <version>|JSQLPARSER_SNAPSHOT_VERSION|</version>
            </dependency>

  .. tab:: Gradle Stable

        .. code-block:: groovy
            :substitutions:

            repositories {
                mavenCentral()
            }

            dependencies {
                implementation 'com.github.jsqlparser:jsqlparser:|JSQLPARSER_VERSION|'
            }

  .. tab:: Gradle Snapshot

        .. code-block:: groovy
            :substitutions:

            repositories {
                maven {
                    url = uri('https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/')
                }
            }

            dependencies {
                implementation 'com.github.jsqlparser:jsqlparser:|JSQLPARSER_SNAPSHOT_VERSION|'
            }


Parse a SQL Statements
==============================			

Parse the SQL Text into Java Objects:

.. code-block:: java

    String sqlStr="select 1 from dual where a=b";

    Statement statement = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(sqlStr);
    if (statement instanceof Select) {
        Select select = (Select) statement;
        PlainSelect plainSelect = (PlainSelect)  select.getSelectBody();

        SelectExpressionItem selectExpressionItem = (SelectExpressionItem) plainSelect.getSelectItems().get(0);
        Assertions.assertEquals( new LongValue(1), selectExpressionItem.getExpression());

        Table table = (Table) plainSelect.getFromItem();
        Assertions.assertEquals("dual", table.getName());

        EqualsTo equalsTo = (EqualsTo) plainSelect.getWhere();
        Column a = (Column) equalsTo.getLeftExpression();
        Column b = (Column) equalsTo.getRightExpression();
        Assertions.assertEquals("a", a.getColumnName());
        Assertions.assertEquals("b", b.getColumnName());
    }


For guidance with the API, use `JSQLFormatter <http://jsqlformatter.manticore-projects.com>`_ to visualize the Traversable Tree of Java Objects:

.. raw:: html

    <div class="highlight">
    <pre>
    SQL Text
     └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Statements</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.Select</font>
        └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectBody</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.PlainSelect</font>
           ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectItems</b></font> -&gt; Collection&lt;<font color="#836B00">SelectExpressionItem</font>&gt;
           │  └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectItems</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.SelectExpressionItem</font>
           │     └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>LongValue</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">1</font>
           ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Table</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">dual</font>
           └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>where</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.expression.operators.relational.EqualsTo</font>
              ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Column</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">a</font>
              └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Column</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">b</font>
   </pre>
   </div>


Use the Visitor Patterns
==============================

Traverse the Java Object Tree using the Visitor Patterns:

.. code-block:: java

    // Define an Expression Visitor reacting on any Expression
    // Overwrite the visit() methods for each Expression Class
    ExpressionVisitorAdapter expressionVisitorAdapter = new ExpressionVisitorAdapter() {
        public void visit(EqualsTo equalsTo) {
            equalsTo.getLeftExpression().accept(this);
            equalsTo.getRightExpression().accept(this);
        }
        public void visit(Column column) {
            System.out.println("Found a Column " + column.getColumnName());
        }
    };

    // Define a Select Visitor reacting on a Plain Select invoking the Expression Visitor on the Where Clause
    SelectVisitorAdapter selectVisitorAdapter = new SelectVisitorAdapter() {
        @Override
        public void visit(PlainSelect plainSelect) {
            plainSelect.getWhere().accept(expressionVisitorAdapter);
        }
    };

    // Define a Statement Visitor for dispatching the Statements
    StatementVisitorAdapter statementVisitor = new StatementVisitorAdapter() {
        public void visit(Select select) {
            select.getSelectBody().accept(selectVisitorAdapter);
        }
    };

    String sqlStr="select 1 from dual where a=b";
    Statement stmt = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(sqlStr);

    // Invoke the Statement Visitor
    stmt.accept(statementVisitor);


Build a SQL Statements
==============================

Build any SQL Statement from Java Code using a fluent API:

.. code-block:: java

    String expectedSQLStr = "SELECT 1 FROM dual t WHERE a = b";

    // Step 1: generate the Java Object Hierarchy for
    SelectExpressionItem selectExpressionItem =
            new SelectExpressionItem().withExpression(new LongValue().withValue(1));

    Table table = new Table().withName("dual").withAlias(new Alias("t", false));

    Column columnA = new Column().withColumnName("a");
    Column columnB = new Column().withColumnName("b");
    Expression whereExpression =
            new EqualsTo().withLeftExpression(columnA).withRightExpression(columnB);

    PlainSelect plainSelect = new PlainSelect().addSelectItems(selectExpressionItem)
            .withFromItem(table).withWhere(whereExpression);
    Select select = new Select().withSelectBody(plainSelect);

    // Step 2a: Print into a SQL Statement
    Assertions.assertEquals(expectedSQLStr, select.toString());

    // Step 2b: De-Parse into a SQL Statement
    StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder();
    StatementDeParser deParser = new StatementDeParser(builder);
    deParser.visit(select);

    Assertions.assertEquals(expectedSQLStr, builder.toString());


Define the Parser Features
==============================

JSQLParser interprets Squared Brackets ``[..]`` as Arrays, which does not work with MS SQL Server and T-SQL. Please use the Parser Features to instruct JSQLParser to read Squared Brackets as Quotes instead.

JSQLParser allows for standard compliant Single Quote ``'..`` Escaping. Additional Back-slash ``\..`` Escaping needs to be activated by setting the ``BackSlashEscapeCharacter`` parser feature.

Additionally there are Features to control the Parser's effort at the cost of the performance.

.. code-block:: java

    String sqlStr="select 1 from [sample_table] where [a]=[b]";

    // T-SQL Square Bracket Quotation
    Statement stmt = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
    );

    // Set Parser Timeout to 6000 ms
    Statement stmt1 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
                .withTimeOut(6000)
    );

    // Allow Complex Parsing (which allows nested Expressions, but is much slower)
    Statement stmt2 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
                .withAllowComplexParsing(true)
                .withTimeOut(6000)
    );

    // Allow Back-slash escaping
    sqlStr="SELECT ('\\'Clark\\'', 'Kent')";
    Statement stmt2 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withBackslashEscapeCharacter(true)
    );

Commit message:

feat: Support more Statement Separators
- `GO`
- Slash `/`
- Two empty lines

src/site/sphinx/usage.rst, after:

******************************
How to use it
******************************

.. hint::

    1) **Quoting:** Double Quotes ``".."`` are used for quoting identifiers. Parsing T-SQL on **MS SQL Server** or **Sybase** with Squared Brackets ``[..]`` depends on ``Squared Bracket Quotation`` as shown in section :ref:`Define the Parser Features` below.

    2) JSQLParser uses a more restrictive list of ``Reserved Keywords`` and such keywords will **need to be quoted**.

    3) **Escaping:** JSQLParser pre-defines standard compliant **Single Quote** ``'..`` **Escape Character**. Additional Back-slash ``\..`` Escaping needs to be activated by setting the ``BackSlashEscapeCharacter`` parser feature. See section :ref:`Define the Parser Features` below for details.

    4) Oracle Alternative Quoting is partially supported for common brackets such as ``q'{...}'``, ``q'[...]'``, ``q'(...)'`` and ``q''...''``.

    5) Supported Statement Separators are Semicolon ``\;``, ``GO``, Slash ``\/`` or 2 empty lines.


Compile from Source Code
==============================

You will need to have ``JDK 8`` or ``JDK 11`` installed.

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Maven

    .. code-block:: shell

            git clone https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.git
            cd jsqlformatter
            mvn install

  .. tab:: Gradle

      .. code-block:: shell
    
            git clone https://github.com/JSQLParser/JSqlParser.git
            cd jsqlformatter
            gradle build



Build Dependencies
==============================

.. tabs::


  .. tab:: Maven Release

        .. code-block:: xml
            :substitutions:

            <dependency>
                <groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
                <artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
                <version>|JSQLPARSER_VERSION|</version>
            </dependency>

  .. tab:: Maven Snapshot

        .. code-block:: xml
            :substitutions:
 
            <repositories>
                <repository>
                    <id>jsqlparser-snapshots</id>
                    <snapshots>
                        <enabled>true</enabled>
                    </snapshots>
                    <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/</url>
                </repository>
            </repositories>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>com.github.jsqlparser</groupId>
                <artifactId>jsqlparser</artifactId>
                <version>|JSQLPARSER_SNAPSHOT_VERSION|</version>
            </dependency>

  .. tab:: Gradle Stable

        .. code-block:: groovy
            :substitutions:

            repositories {
                mavenCentral()
            }

            dependencies {
                implementation 'com.github.jsqlparser:jsqlparser:|JSQLPARSER_VERSION|'
            }

  .. tab:: Gradle Snapshot

        .. code-block:: groovy
            :substitutions:

            repositories {
                maven {
                    url = uri('https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/')
                }
            }

            dependencies {
                implementation 'com.github.jsqlparser:jsqlparser:|JSQLPARSER_SNAPSHOT_VERSION|'
            }


Parse a SQL Statements
==============================			

Parse the SQL Text into Java Objects:

.. code-block:: java

    String sqlStr="select 1 from dual where a=b";

    Statement statement = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(sqlStr);
    if (statement instanceof Select) {
        Select select = (Select) statement;
        PlainSelect plainSelect = (PlainSelect)  select.getSelectBody();

        SelectExpressionItem selectExpressionItem = (SelectExpressionItem) plainSelect.getSelectItems().get(0);
        Assertions.assertEquals( new LongValue(1), selectExpressionItem.getExpression());

        Table table = (Table) plainSelect.getFromItem();
        Assertions.assertEquals("dual", table.getName());

        EqualsTo equalsTo = (EqualsTo) plainSelect.getWhere();
        Column a = (Column) equalsTo.getLeftExpression();
        Column b = (Column) equalsTo.getRightExpression();
        Assertions.assertEquals("a", a.getColumnName());
        Assertions.assertEquals("b", b.getColumnName());
    }


For guidance with the API, use `JSQLFormatter <http://jsqlformatter.manticore-projects.com>`_ to visualize the Traversable Tree of Java Objects:

.. raw:: html

    <div class="highlight">
    <pre>
    SQL Text
     └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Statements</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.Select</font>
        └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectBody</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.PlainSelect</font>
           ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectItems</b></font> -&gt; Collection&lt;<font color="#836B00">SelectExpressionItem</font>&gt;
           │  └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>selectItems</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.statement.select.SelectExpressionItem</font>
           │     └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>LongValue</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">1</font>
           ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Table</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">dual</font>
           └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>where</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">net.sf.jsqlparser.expression.operators.relational.EqualsTo</font>
              ├─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Column</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">a</font>
              └─<font color="#739FCF"><b>Column</b></font>: <font color="#836B00">b</font>
   </pre>
   </div>


Use the Visitor Patterns
==============================

Traverse the Java Object Tree using the Visitor Patterns:

.. code-block:: java

    // Define an Expression Visitor reacting on any Expression
    // Overwrite the visit() methods for each Expression Class
    ExpressionVisitorAdapter expressionVisitorAdapter = new ExpressionVisitorAdapter() {
        public void visit(EqualsTo equalsTo) {
            equalsTo.getLeftExpression().accept(this);
            equalsTo.getRightExpression().accept(this);
        }
        public void visit(Column column) {
            System.out.println("Found a Column " + column.getColumnName());
        }
    };

    // Define a Select Visitor reacting on a Plain Select invoking the Expression Visitor on the Where Clause
    SelectVisitorAdapter selectVisitorAdapter = new SelectVisitorAdapter() {
        @Override
        public void visit(PlainSelect plainSelect) {
            plainSelect.getWhere().accept(expressionVisitorAdapter);
        }
    };

    // Define a Statement Visitor for dispatching the Statements
    StatementVisitorAdapter statementVisitor = new StatementVisitorAdapter() {
        public void visit(Select select) {
            select.getSelectBody().accept(selectVisitorAdapter);
        }
    };

    String sqlStr="select 1 from dual where a=b";
    Statement stmt = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(sqlStr);

    // Invoke the Statement Visitor
    stmt.accept(statementVisitor);


Build a SQL Statements
==============================

Build any SQL Statement from Java Code using a fluent API:

.. code-block:: java

    String expectedSQLStr = "SELECT 1 FROM dual t WHERE a = b";

    // Step 1: generate the Java Object Hierarchy for
    SelectExpressionItem selectExpressionItem =
            new SelectExpressionItem().withExpression(new LongValue().withValue(1));

    Table table = new Table().withName("dual").withAlias(new Alias("t", false));

    Column columnA = new Column().withColumnName("a");
    Column columnB = new Column().withColumnName("b");
    Expression whereExpression =
            new EqualsTo().withLeftExpression(columnA).withRightExpression(columnB);

    PlainSelect plainSelect = new PlainSelect().addSelectItems(selectExpressionItem)
            .withFromItem(table).withWhere(whereExpression);
    Select select = new Select().withSelectBody(plainSelect);

    // Step 2a: Print into a SQL Statement
    Assertions.assertEquals(expectedSQLStr, select.toString());

    // Step 2b: De-Parse into a SQL Statement
    StringBuilder builder = new StringBuilder();
    StatementDeParser deParser = new StatementDeParser(builder);
    deParser.visit(select);

    Assertions.assertEquals(expectedSQLStr, builder.toString());


Define the Parser Features
==============================

JSQLParser interprets Squared Brackets ``[..]`` as Arrays, which does not work with MS SQL Server and T-SQL. Please use the Parser Features to instruct JSQLParser to read Squared Brackets as Quotes instead.

JSQLParser allows for standard compliant Single Quote ``'..`` Escaping. Additional Back-slash ``\..`` Escaping needs to be activated by setting the ``BackSlashEscapeCharacter`` parser feature.

Additionally there are Features to control the Parser's effort at the cost of the performance.

.. code-block:: java

    String sqlStr="select 1 from [sample_table] where [a]=[b]";

    // T-SQL Square Bracket Quotation
    Statement stmt = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
    );

    // Set Parser Timeout to 6000 ms
    Statement stmt1 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
                .withTimeOut(6000)
    );

    // Allow Complex Parsing (which allows nested Expressions, but is much slower)
    Statement stmt2 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withSquareBracketQuotation(true)
                .withAllowComplexParsing(true)
                .withTimeOut(6000)
    );

    // Allow Back-slash escaping
    sqlStr="SELECT ('\\'Clark\\'', 'Kent')";
    Statement stmt2 = CCJSqlParserUtil.parse(
            sqlStr
            , parser -> parser
                .withBackslashEscapeCharacter(true)
    );
